README.md, before:

# HydroGeoSphere Language Grammar

This repository contains the necessary files for codehighlighting / 'syntax'-highlighting of [HydroGeoSphere][hgs] input files (`grok`, `mprops`, etc.): The definition of the syntax of such input files, and the definition of which syntax to show in what coloring options. 

## Features

- everything between "Skip on" and "Skip off" is greyed out as a block comment;
- the "problem description" at the beginning is greyed out as a block comment;
- comments indicated by a "!" are greyed out (as comments);
- file endings (`.txt`, etc.) of input files are coloured;
- numbers are highlighted;
- domain names (porous medium, surface, etc.) are highlighted;
- certain keywords ('end', 'clear', 'choose') are highlighted;

## Text Editors
There are various options for text editors that understand this setup, it is tested using
- [TextMate][TM] on OSX and 
- [SublimeText][ST] (cross-platform, versions for various flavours of operating systems exist). 

Other text editors that understand `tmLanguage` syntax specifications exist (Atom, Visual Studio Code, etc.).

<figure>
    <img src='./img/2017_03_comparison.png' alt='Comparison: grok file without (left) and with (right) hgs syntax highlighted.' />
    <figcaption align="center"><cite>Comparison: grok file without (left) and with (right) hgs syntax highlighted.</cite></figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
    <img src='./img/2017_03_screenshot_ST.png' alt='Screenshot of SublimeText with hgs syntax highlighted.' />
    <figcaption align="center"><cite>Screenshot of SublimeText with hgs syntax highlighted.</cite></figcaption>
</figure>

This repository contains "compiled" version of the necessary files that need to be put into proper folders (see Section "Installation"). This repository contains also the [syntax definition as ASCII file][syntax_def_ascii].


## Installation

### TextMate

The installation for TextMate is straight forward:

1. download the [hgs.tmbundle][hgs.tmbundle]
2. double click and follow the instructions

### SublimeText 
Two files need to be copied at two different locations. The destinations vary, depending on which version of SublimeText you use.

#### Directories

_OSX_:

- version 2: go to `/Applications/Sublime\ Text.app/Contents/MacOS/Packages`
- version 3: go to `Sublime Text` - `Preferences` - `Browse Packages`

_WINDOWS_:

- `$HomeDir\AppData\Roaming\Sublime Text 3\Installed Packages`


#### 1. Syntax Definition

- copy the [syntax definition file][ST_syntax] to one of the above mentioned directories
- restart SublimeText
- you should be able to set `hgs` as the language (view - syntax) of an open (grok) file


#### 2. Color Scheme

- copy the [SublimeText color scheme][ST_color_scheme] to one of the two paths described above
- go to `Sublime Text` - `Preferences` - `Settings - User`; a file will pop up where you can specity the color scheme you want to use, in this case refer to the one you just copied by its file name. Typically, this could look like this:

    // Settings in here override those in "Default/Preferences.sublime-settings",
    // and are overridden in turn by file type specific settings.
    {
    	"color_scheme": "Packages/Color Scheme - hgs/hgs.tmTheme"
    }

NOTE: the file ending of the package is not demanded here (no `sublime-package`)!


## Color Schemes
Color schemes can be viewed, modified, and created using [this][online_themes] online theme editor



## References
- Textmate [Language Grammars][TM:LanguageG]
- Textmate [Bundle Style Guide][TM:BSG]
- Textmate [Regular Expressions][TM:RegEx]
- notes on [Textmate Grammar][notes:TMGrammar]
- SublimeText [Syntax Definitions][ST:Syntax] and [Syntax Doc][ST:SyntaxDoc]


## Release Notes

### 2020-Oct-22
I can't believe that we are in year four! I do enjoy seeing people using this! Unfortunately, there was some sort of download problem which I have fixed, hopefully. Please contact me / [raise an issue](https://github.com/hydroclaus/hgs_grammar/issues) when you see things misbehaving! Also, I'd be curious to hear from people using this with Visual Studio Code or Atom.

### 2017-Mar-02
- preparation for HydroGeoSphere user meeting in Bayreuth
- fix for problem definition at beginning for both Sublime Text and TextMate

### 2016-Feb-28
- initial commit

### 2016-Apr-18
- fix: everything from the beginning of the file until "end title" is now treated as a block comment
- new: included "end" or "End" as keyword
- new: "solute" and "boundary condtions" appear as `variable.parameter`
- new: the following file extensions are highlighted as `storage`: txt, dat, mprops, etprops, fprops, dprops, oprops (note: possibly, it could make sense to highlight the full line (including the path and name of the files), however, I decided to stay parsimoneous for now)
- fix: recognizes numbers (floats, exponential) to be separated by a comma; as far as HydroGeoSphere is concerned, there can be also 'just' a space; a dot is the decimal separator

[hgs]: http://www.aquanty.com/hydrogeosphere/
[TM]: http://macromates.com/
[ST]: http://www.sublimetext.com
[online_themes]: http://tmtheme-editor.herokuapp.com
[ST3_zip]:http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20385550/syntax-highlight-tmlanguage-in-sublime-text-3-for-packages/29566977#29566977
[syntax_def_ascii]: ./packages/tm_hgs_language.grammar
[hgs.tmbundle]: ./packages/hgs.tmbundle
[ST_color_scheme]: ./packages/Color%20Scheme%20-%20hgs.sublime-package
[ST_syntax]: ./packages/hgs.sublime-package
[TM:BSG]: http://wiki.macromates.com/Bundles/StyleGuide
[TM:RegEx]: http://manual.macromates.com/en/regular_expressions#regular_expressions
[notes:TMGrammar]: http://www.apeth.com/nonblog/stories/textmatebundle.html
[TM:LanguageG]: http://manual.macromates.com/en/language_grammars#language_rules
[ST:Syntax]: http://docs.sublimetext.info/en/latest/extensibility/syntaxdefs.html
[ST:SyntaxDoc]: https://www.sublimetext.com/docs/3/syntax.html

Commit message:

update: fixed a plist issue
that occurred on macOS Monterrey (12) and/or since TM2 is out of beta (brought to attention by aquanty / Brayden McNeill)

README.md, after:

# HydroGeoSphere Language Grammar

This repository contains the necessary files for codehighlighting / 'syntax'-highlighting of [HydroGeoSphere][hgs] input files (`grok`, `mprops`, etc.): The definition of the syntax of such input files, and the definition of which syntax to show in what coloring options. 

## Features

- everything between "Skip on" and "Skip off" is greyed out as a block comment;
- the "problem description" at the beginning is greyed out as a block comment;
- comments indicated by a "!" are greyed out (as comments);
- file endings (`.txt`, etc.) of input files are coloured;
- numbers are highlighted;
- domain names (porous medium, surface, etc.) are highlighted;
- certain keywords ('end', 'clear', 'choose') are highlighted;

## Text Editors
There are various options for text editors that understand this setup, it is tested using
- [TextMate][TM] on OSX and 
- [SublimeText][ST] (cross-platform, versions for various flavours of operating systems exist). 

Other text editors that understand `tmLanguage` syntax specifications exist (Atom, Visual Studio Code, etc.).

<figure>
    <img src='./img/2017_03_comparison.png' alt='Comparison: grok file without (left) and with (right) hgs syntax highlighted.' />
    <figcaption align="center"><cite>Comparison: grok file without (left) and with (right) hgs syntax highlighted.</cite></figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
    <img src='./img/2017_03_screenshot_ST.png' alt='Screenshot of SublimeText with hgs syntax highlighted.' />
    <figcaption align="center"><cite>Screenshot of SublimeText with hgs syntax highlighted.</cite></figcaption>
</figure>

This repository contains "compiled" version of the necessary files that need to be put into proper folders (see Section "Installation"). This repository contains also the [syntax definition as ASCII file][syntax_def_ascii].


## Installation

### TextMate

The installation for TextMate is straight forward:

1. download the [hgs.tmbundle][hgs.tmbundle]
2. double click and follow the instructions

### SublimeText 
Two files need to be copied at two different locations. The destinations vary, depending on which version of SublimeText you use.

#### Directories

_OSX_:

- version 2: go to `/Applications/Sublime\ Text.app/Contents/MacOS/Packages`
- version 3: go to `Sublime Text` - `Preferences` - `Browse Packages`

_WINDOWS_:

- `$HomeDir\AppData\Roaming\Sublime Text 3\Installed Packages`


#### 1. Syntax Definition

- copy the [syntax definition file][ST_syntax] to one of the above mentioned directories
- restart SublimeText
- you should be able to set `hgs` as the language (view - syntax) of an open (grok) file


#### 2. Color Scheme

- copy the [SublimeText color scheme][ST_color_scheme] to one of the two paths described above
- go to `Sublime Text` - `Preferences` - `Settings - User`; a file will pop up where you can specity the color scheme you want to use, in this case refer to the one you just copied by its file name. Typically, this could look like this:

    // Settings in here override those in "Default/Preferences.sublime-settings",
    // and are overridden in turn by file type specific settings.
    {
    	"color_scheme": "Packages/Color Scheme - hgs/hgs.tmTheme"
    }

NOTE: the file ending of the package is not demanded here (no `sublime-package`)!


## Color Schemes
Color schemes can be viewed, modified, and created using [this][online_themes] online theme editor



## References
- Textmate [Language Grammars][TM:LanguageG]
- Textmate [Bundle Style Guide][TM:BSG]
- Textmate [Regular Expressions][TM:RegEx]
- notes on [Textmate Grammar][notes:TMGrammar]
- SublimeText [Syntax Definitions][ST:Syntax] and [Syntax Doc][ST:SyntaxDoc]


## Release Notes

### 2022-Jan-16
- fixed an error that occurred when installing the `hgs.tmbundle` on a recent macOS / TM2 not anymore in beta

### 2020-Oct-22
I can't believe that we are in year four! I do enjoy seeing people using this! Unfortunately, there was some sort of download problem which I have fixed, hopefully. Please contact me / [raise an issue](https://github.com/hydroclaus/hgs_grammar/issues) when you see things misbehaving! Also, I'd be curious to hear from people using this with Visual Studio Code or Atom.

### 2017-Mar-02
- preparation for HydroGeoSphere user meeting in Bayreuth
- fix for problem definition at beginning for both Sublime Text and TextMate

### 2016-Feb-28
- initial commit

### 2016-Apr-18
- fix: everything from the beginning of the file until "end title" is now treated as a block comment
- new: included "end" or "End" as keyword
- new: "solute" and "boundary condtions" appear as `variable.parameter`
- new: the following file extensions are highlighted as `storage`: txt, dat, mprops, etprops, fprops, dprops, oprops (note: possibly, it could make sense to highlight the full line (including the path and name of the files), however, I decided to stay parsimoneous for now)
- fix: recognizes numbers (floats, exponential) to be separated by a comma; as far as HydroGeoSphere is concerned, there can be also 'just' a space; a dot is the decimal separator

[hgs]: http://www.aquanty.com/hydrogeosphere/
[TM]: http://macromates.com/
[ST]: http://www.sublimetext.com
[online_themes]: http://tmtheme-editor.herokuapp.com
[ST3_zip]:http://stackoverflow.com/questions/20385550/syntax-highlight-tmlanguage-in-sublime-text-3-for-packages/29566977#29566977
[syntax_def_ascii]: ./packages/tm_hgs_language.grammar
[hgs.tmbundle]: ./packages/hgs.tmbundle
[ST_color_scheme]: ./packages/Color%20Scheme%20-%20hgs.sublime-package
[ST_syntax]: ./packages/hgs.sublime-package
[TM:BSG]: http://wiki.macromates.com/Bundles/StyleGuide
[TM:RegEx]: http://manual.macromates.com/en/regular_expressions#regular_expressions
[notes:TMGrammar]: http://www.apeth.com/nonblog/stories/textmatebundle.html
[TM:LanguageG]: http://manual.macromates.com/en/language_grammars#language_rules
[ST:Syntax]: http://docs.sublimetext.info/en/latest/extensibility/syntaxdefs.html
[ST:SyntaxDoc]: https://www.sublimetext.com/docs/3/syntax.html
